# RGG-as-Model-of-Wireless-Sensor-Networks

      Wireless sensor network(WSN) is physical network which is built to connect the whole area using wireless sensors, to optimize this network, we try to find the most scientific layout of the wireless sensors, that is, providing a communication backbone for every network which is randomized generated, to build a backbone, we have to first do coloring to all vertices in RGG, choose 4 biggest color class and combine every distinct two of them and get a network.
      In this project, I implement an algorithm for determining a coloring, terminal clique, and a selection of bipartite subgraphs that are produced by an algorithm for graph coloring in a random geometric Graph(RGG). In Part I, I implement several RGG’s on the unit square and several RGG’s on a disk which model WSN’s geographic regions, both are based on benchmark set and are randomized generated. For each RGG, I maintained an adjacency list and a degree list as output to be input for Part II.
In Part II, I implement the smallest last coloring algorithm for vertex coloring and terminal clique identification in the RGG using adjacency list and degree list as input in Part I. I also give a walkthrough for an RGG in the unit square with a small amount of vertex number to show the whole smallest last ordering procedure and coloring procedure step by step.
In Part III, I choose four largest color classes of each of the benchmark graphs, and build 6 pairs of bipartite subgraph, for these pairs, I determined which top two possible bipartite subgraphs with most edges in the maximum connected subgraph, and determined that two as backbone of the RGG. The domination percentage of the backbone shows the performance of my algorithm and model the Coverage of the WSN.
In my implementation, due to the data structure and algorithm I used, I achieve linear time ( (|V|+|E|)) for Part I and Part II, and the running time of the whole procedure is considerably short especially for large number of vertices in the RGG. Other than the walkthrough of a small graph mentioned before, I also provided graphs like degree distribution, color class distribution, original and deleted degree information for vertices for RGG in each benchmark, the graphs will be showed in Result Summary part. Running time plot for each Part of the project to test the time complexity is given in algorithm engineering part in Reduction to Practice part.
